README.md, before:

# Pelilauta

[![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=villetakanen_pelilauta2&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=villetakanen_pelilauta2)

_Elven wizard casts a resurrection: [pelilauta.web.app](https://pelilauta.web.app)_

An Open Source vue3+firebase project for a community site. 

## Goals
1. Provide a web-forum like UX for desktop
2. Provide a social-media-stream like UX for mobile, without compromising (1)
3. Provide GDPR tools for Personal data removal
4. Provide basic tools for community moderation
5. Super simple to use

## How you can help.
1. Use the App
2. Read the code
3. Log issues to the github tracker of this repo
4. Ask Ville for access, and start peer reviewing or writin code :P
5. Ask Ville for access, and start helping with Firebase devops tasks o_O
6. Use the App.

## Breaking, and other major changes

8.0.0 
- Support for multiple stream post types. Breaks compatibility with "thread-only" post type model of pre 8.0.
- No migration needed, as we simply add new stream post types to database.

7.7.0 - and above
- The app now expects that https://github.com/villetakanen/pelilauta-functions/releases/tag/0.1.0 
  or later is installed to firebase project. As the App will function just fine without the back-end
  triggers in the functions project, this change is not marked as breaking.

7.0.0.
- Supports email-link auth. No longer supports multiple SSO providers for multiple acccounts with 
  the same email.

6.0.0
- No longer compatible with skald 2.x site members model, requires a migration update for 
  owners/members to firebase data structures

## Project setup

### Prequisites

Since 4.0.0, you need to have:
1. A Firebase project
2. An Algolia index
3. A clone of [pelilauta-functions](https://github.com/villetakanen/pelilauta-functions)

### Install
```
npm install
```

Create a file called env.local and add following data from the Firebase app
```text
VUE_APP_FIREBASE_API_KEY = 
VUE_APP_FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN =  
VUE_APP_FIREBASE_DATABASE_URL = 
VUE_APP_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID  = 
VUE_APP_FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET  = 
VUE_APP_FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID =
VUE_APP_FIREBASE_APP_ID =
VUE_APP_FIREBASE_MEASUREMENT_ID = 
VUE_APP_ALGOLIA_APP_ID = 
VUE_APP_ALGOLIA_APP_SEARCH_KEY = 
```

### Compiles and hot-reloads for development
```
npm run serve
```

### Compiles and minifies for production
```
npm run build
```

### Lints and fixes files
```
npm run lint
```

### Release a new version (from CLI)
```bash
npm run release && npm run build && firebase deploy
git push --follow-tags origin master
```

### Run end-to-end tests
You need to add a cypress.env.json file to project root with username and password to test the features that require login.

Example of the cypress.env.json file
```json
{
  "TEST_USER_EMAIL": "an.email@address.com",
  "TEST_USER_PASSWORD": "theP4ssw0rd"
}
```
To run the tests
```bash
npm run test:e2e
```

Commit message:

fix: readme updated for breaking change
BREAKING CHANGE – Requires pelilauta-functions 0.2.0

README.md, after:

# Pelilauta

[![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=villetakanen_pelilauta2&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=villetakanen_pelilauta2)

_Elven wizard casts a resurrection: [pelilauta.web.app](https://pelilauta.web.app)_

An Open Source vue3+firebase project for a community site. 

## Goals
1. Provide a web-forum like UX for desktop
2. Provide a social-media-stream like UX for mobile, without compromising (1)
3. Provide GDPR tools for Personal data removal
4. Provide basic tools for community moderation
5. Super simple to use

## How you can help.
1. Use the App
2. Read the code
3. Log issues to the github tracker of this repo
4. Ask Ville for access, and start peer reviewing or writin code :P
5. Ask Ville for access, and start helping with Firebase devops tasks o_O
6. Use the App.

## Breaking, and other major changes

9.0.0
- Requires Pelilauta-functions 0.2.0 for inbox functionality. Breaks authz structure for 8.x and below.

8.0.0 
- Support for multiple stream post types. Breaks compatibility with "thread-only" post type model of pre 8.0.
- No migration needed, as we simply add new stream post types to database.

7.7.0 - and above
- The app now expects that https://github.com/villetakanen/pelilauta-functions/releases/tag/0.1.0 
  or later is installed to firebase project. As the App will function just fine without the back-end
  triggers in the functions project, this change is not marked as breaking.

7.0.0.
- Supports email-link auth. No longer supports multiple SSO providers for multiple acccounts with 
  the same email.

6.0.0
- No longer compatible with skald 2.x site members model, requires a migration update for 
  owners/members to firebase data structures

## Project setup

### Prequisites

Since 4.0.0, you need to have:
1. A Firebase project
2. An Algolia index
3. A clone of [pelilauta-functions](https://github.com/villetakanen/pelilauta-functions)

### Install
```
npm install
```

Create a file called env.local and add following data from the Firebase app
```text
VUE_APP_FIREBASE_API_KEY = 
VUE_APP_FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN =  
VUE_APP_FIREBASE_DATABASE_URL = 
VUE_APP_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID  = 
VUE_APP_FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET  = 
VUE_APP_FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID =
VUE_APP_FIREBASE_APP_ID =
VUE_APP_FIREBASE_MEASUREMENT_ID = 
VUE_APP_ALGOLIA_APP_ID = 
VUE_APP_ALGOLIA_APP_SEARCH_KEY = 
```

### Compiles and hot-reloads for development
```
npm run serve
```

### Compiles and minifies for production
```
npm run build
```

### Lints and fixes files
```
npm run lint
```

### Release a new version (from CLI)
```bash
npm run release && npm run build && firebase deploy
git push --follow-tags origin master
```

### Run end-to-end tests
You need to add a cypress.env.json file to project root with username and password to test the features that require login.

Example of the cypress.env.json file
```json
{
  "TEST_USER_EMAIL": "an.email@address.com",
  "TEST_USER_PASSWORD": "theP4ssw0rd"
}
```
To run the tests
```bash
npm run test:e2e
```
